--- layout: page weight: 0 title: Debugging Webhooks navigation: show:
true ---

If you need to see what kind of responses you're going to get from our
webhooks, or you need to tunnel directly to your developer environment,
there are a selection of tools out there to help you. Here we'll look at
two different options and how to set them up.

{% anchor h2 %} Hook Debug {% endanchor %}

Hook Debug ([hookdebug.sendgrid.com](http://hookdebug.sendgrid.com))
works by providing a unique URL that you can set as your endpoint for
both the Inbound Parse and the Event Notifications Webhooks. You can
then check this URL to see what responses you're getting back from us.

{% anchor h3 %} Setup {% endanchor %}

Each time you visit [Hook Debug](http://hookdebug.sendgrid.com/) a new
unique URL is generated. Getting set up is as simple as visiting the
site and grabbing the URL in the middle of the page.

The URL looks like this:

{% codeblock lang:html %}
http://hookdebug.sendgrid.com/v1/events/4bf029e6cda8215883aff1090fff204b
{% endcodeblock %} {% info %} Hook Debug does not store unique URLs
against your SendGrid account and a new URL will be generated each time
you visit the site. You should keep a note of which URLs you're using
for your apps, so you can revisit them if needed. {% endinfo %} {%
anchor h3 %} Receive Event Notifications Data {% endanchor %}

To have all your event notifications posted to this URL first turn on
the [Event Notification app]({{root_url}}/Apps/event_notification.html)
in your dashboard.

Next, select which notifications you would like to have send to Hook
Debug (if in doubt, tick all the checkboxes to turn them all on) and
enter the unique URL generated by Hook Debug as your Post Event URL at
the bottom of the page. Once you've saved the changes, all event
notifications will be sent to Hook Debug for you to check.

{% anchor h3 %} Receive Inbound Parse Data {% endanchor %}

Before you can receive data through the Inbound Parse Webhook, you will
need to follow the [instructions for making changes to your MX
records]({{root_url}}/API_Reference/Webhooks/parse.html) in your DNS
setup.

Once that has been completed you can [setup your Inbound
Parse](http://sendgrid.com/developer/reply). In this case, you need to
add your Hook Debug URL as the URL to POST to.

{% anchor h3 %} Seeing the results {% endanchor %}

After completing the setup for your chosen webhook, the results can be
found by heading to your Hook Debug unique URL in a browser, or you can
monitor it via CURL by running the following command in your console: {%
codeblock lang:html %} curl -X GET http://your\_unique\_hook\_debug\_url
{% endcodeblock %} {% info %} Hook Debug only buffers 10 events at a
time, we don't keep historical events or inbound parses, you will only
find the most recent 10 events. {% endinfo %} {% anchor h2 %}
LocalTunnel {% endanchor %}

[LocalTunnel](http://progrium.com/localtunnel/) is a service built by
[Jeff Lindsay](http://progrium.com/blog). It opens up a tunnel to a
specified port on your local machine/dev environment and generates a
unique URL for accessing it.

You would use this to route Event Notification POSTs and Inbound Parse
POSTs directly to your local machine for consumption in your app.

{% anchor h3 %} Setup {% endanchor %}

Start by installing LocalTunnel on your machine via
[RubyGems](http://rubygems.org/)

{% codeblock lang:html %} \$ gem install localtunnel {% endcodeblock %}

The first time you run LocalTunnel, you'll need to pass a location of a
public key for security reasons, you can do that with the following
command:

{% codeblock lang:html %} \$ localtunnel -k \~/.ssh/id\_rsa.pub 8080 {%
endcodeblock %}

This will open up port 8080 to the outside world via a unique URL. The
next time you run LocalTunnel you will not need to pass the public key
option. Simply pass a port to LocalTunnel:

{% codeblock lang:html %} \$ localtunnel 8080 {% endcodeblock %}

This will return a URL that looks something like this:

{% codeblock lang:html %} http://8bv2.localtunnel.com {% endcodeblock %}

This is the URL that you would then enter into your Event Notification
app or Inbound Parse settings. Once you have this set up, real time
notifications will be passed directly through to your development
environment without the need to deploy to a server to test your
integrations.

{% info %} [LocalTunnel v2](https://github.com/progrium/localtunnel) is
in beta, if you would like to test that version then you can find it on
GitHub. It's written in Python rather than Ruby, so if you prefer that,
v2 is the one for you. {% endinfo %}
